There is no comparison, no equal
Master, it's late
We must hurry on our way…
PLAY
I wanted to be a loyal subject
But after reaching this height
What's left for those scholars?
Why would they still crave official ranks?
I think I've reached
the end of my loyalty.
What do you think,
Your Highness?
CROWN PRINCE, ZHU YOU SHENG
Back then, my uncle, the Duke of Ding,
and 237 members of the Jiang family
were framed and slaughtered.
53,000 soldiers of the Duke of Ding's Army
were disgraced and wronged.
And today,
I wonder how many in the Eastern Palace
and the capital will be slaughtered?
You defy the throne
and aided Prince Qing
in his treacherous bid for power.
It turns out this was all about
clearing the name of
the Duke of Ding's Army.
And you are blaming it
on me and my father.
When a ruler suspects his ministers,
they are doomed to die.
Are you really saying I've wronged you?
SONG MO
Song Mo,
I pity you.
Your revenge is misplaced.
I've lost,
but in the end,
you'll lose everything as well.
Your Highness!
I would rather die
than let a traitor have his way.
General, we found it.
Congratulations, sir.
Grand General's blood feud
is half avenged.
He said
I took my revenge on the wrong people.
In the winter of
the 27th year of Chengping's reign,
as the Emperor was gravely ill,
General of Agile Cavalry Song Mo
supported Prince Qing.
Under the guise of tending to the Emperor,
he launched an attack
on the capital at night.
He sought to clear
the name of the Duke of Ding.
Possessing over a hundred weapons
in secret is a grave crime.
My Lady, did you know that Prince Qing
and General Song Mo would rebel?
The capital is in chaos.
The streets are filled with
rogue soldiers and refugees.
When survival is at stake,
what use is talk of the law?
-Grab them!
-Yes, ma'am!
Song Mo is a ruthless killer.
He even killed his own father and brother.
Now he's leading rebel troops
back into the capital.
Everyone's saying
he is going to massacre the entire city.
I had to run for my life!
How insolent!
Matters of the court
are not for a lowly servant
like you to gossip about.
Flog him harder!
Song Mo, that traitor…
He's here for revenge.
CHEN JIA
WANG GE, EUNUCH OF
DIRECTORATE OF CEREMONIAL
After tonight,
Prince Qing will take the throne.
General Song, you'll be credited
with the greatest merit.
Allow me to offer
my congratulations in advance.
You should know
that everything I've done
is solely to clear
the Duke of Ding's name.
Once I meet His Majesty,
I'll hand this over to Prince Qing myself.
His Majesty and His Highness
are having a private conversation.
It wouldn't be proper to interrupt.
Once His Highness ascends,
an audience will be arranged for you.
Very well.
When he becomes the new ruler,
tell him to come find me.
All troops, hear my command!
Yes, General!
We will move to the outskirts of the city
and await the Emperor's decree!
Yes, General!
With a new Emperor unable
to ascend the throne
and a rebel army camped
outside the capital,
it was a stalemate
that was chaos in disguise.
At the time, I could never have imagined
MARQUIS OF JINING'S RESIDENCE
that the seemingly stable walls
of this household
were already riddled with cracks.
Starting tonight,
halt all banquets,
entertainment, and repairs.
Tomorrow, stewards will purchase
a month's supply of provisions
for the household.
Patrols will follow this route
around the estate
in four rotating shifts.
Ten armed guards are to stand watch
at the front and back gates,
day and night.
Post two guards outside
His Lordship's, Ming's,
and the three concubines' quarters.
Yes, My Lady.
My Lady.
His Lordship has ties to Prince Qing.
Now, nobles, marquises,
and ministers in the capital
are asking to see His Lordship.
At a time like this,
Prince Qing's faction wants
to crown a new emperor,
while the loyal ministers are ready
to die defending the old one,
And then there are the fence sitters,
all eager to drag
His Lordship into the fray.
Turn them away.
But if I refuse to see them,
I'm bound to offend them.
Bring it in.
I'm sick.
Gravely ill.
My Lord, you're too busy
tending to your ailing wife
to receive guests.
That's far too improper.
What use is propriety
when the world is falling apart?
Nothing matters more than life and death.
With a coffin in place,
they will leave you alone.
FUNERAL TRIBUTE
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL BLOSSOM
BY AUTHOR ZIZI FROM QIDIAN CHINESE WEBSITE
Purchase 200 pounds
of silver frost charcoal.
Since His Lordship and Ming
like calligraphy and painting,
stock an additional
100 feet of jade paper.
Also, have the stewards
from the estates and shops
report back after lunch.
Yes, My Lady.
My Lady.
Here.
My Lady, you almost died
when you had a miscarriage last year.
Your priority now should be
taking care of your health.
You cannot overwork yourself.
How can the matron of a noble family
neglect responsibilities?
Serving my husband,
looking after the concubines
and their children,
managing over a hundred servants
in this household,
along with dozens of
estates and businesses,
there's no end to it.
And that's not even counting
the endless social obligations.
You're so unwell,
yet His Lordship hasn't shown
the slightest concern.
Fifth Young Lady came all this way
claiming she'd help care for you,
but she's nowhere to be seen.
She's from another mother, after all.
-No heart…
-Tuo Niang.
My Lady, look.
Spring hasn't even arrived,
and the white magnolias
are already blooming.
This is the first time I've seen
magnolias blooming in the snow.
If my mother were here,
she'd surely be delighted.
If Seventh Madam were still with us,
you wouldn't have
to bear all this burden alone.
What is that smell?
Medicinal herbs.
The fragrance is strong.
Looks like Ming hasn't been slacking off.
She must be brewing medicine for me.
You're right, My Lady.
Don't bring up the matter
of different mothers again.
It will upset Ming if she hears it.
Yes, My Lady.
The medicine might have burned.
Don't worry.
The doctor said she doesn't
have much time left.
Once she's gone and
the mourning period is over,
I'll marry you.
He's not wrong.
Our marriage was arranged by our parents,
with no affection between us.
If they really love each other,
after I pass,
his marriage to Dou Ming
will benefit both our families.
-It'll be a lasting alliance.
-Oh, My Lady…
Let's go.
But what if Father refuses?
After all, her mother
and mine were sworn sisters.
And her mother died because of
my mother's affair with my father.
Mother…
I can't believe
she's the reason Mother died.
All my efforts to run this household,
and in the end,
I've paved the way for my enemies.
The kitchen is on fire.
-Call the servants.
-Yes, My Lady.
You can trust me.
Don't you know me by now?
Even if I have to go through hell,
I'll marry you.
No one can tear us apart.
What's that noise?
The kitchen is on fire!
-Bring water!
-The kitchen is on fire!
-Fire in the kitchen!
-Hurry up!
My dear, it's my fault.
Please don't hurt Ming.
I won't hurt her.
In fact, I should thank you both.
You've saved me from living in ignorance.
-Sister…
-Don't call me that.
I never expected love from my husband
or the bond of sisterhood,
but neither of you
could even spare me
the smallest shred of decency.
Tell me, how did my mother really die?
That was before I was born.
I've only overheard the elders mention it.
I don't know the details.
I will get to the bottom of it.
But as for what's happened today,
we will settle it here and now.
You…
I have been married
into this family for ten years.
I've poured my heart
into managing the household,
never once failing
Wei Ting Yu or Dou Ming.
Even amidst the chaos in the capital,
I pushed through my illness
to protect this family.
And yet,
their adultery in broad daylight
in the kitchen
has cursed me to an early death.
A heartless man is unworthy of trust,
and the daughter of
my enemy cannot be family.
When this disgrace and betrayal
are brought to the court,
you will all be my witnesses.
From this moment on,
I am no longer Marchioness of Jining.
My Lord!
My Lord, Her Ladyship
has left the residence.
You think I don't know that?
Didn't I ask you to guard the door?
Why are you still standing there?
Go fetch our clothes!
Yes, My Lord. Please excuse me.
If I'd known it would come to this,
I should've listened to my mother!
I should've put stronger poison
into her medicine
and ended her for good!
Why are you standing there?
If she takes this to the authorities,
Neither of us will have peace again.
Don't worry.
My family's century-old reputation
won't be ruined by her.
Such towering ambition is wasted in vain
A lifetime's passion is never unchained
Young Lady, it's snowing heavily.
This isn't snow.
Tuo Niang, give them some food.
The land is in ruins,
the nation on the brink.
Life is unpredictable.
My departure this time
marks our final farewell.
The willows are alive,
spinning the top.
The willows are green,
ringing the bell.
The willows sprout, play…
Tuo Niang.
I was still young when my mother passed.
Can you think of anything unusual
about that time?
Your father had just passed
the imperial exams.
And it was also
the birthday of your cousin.
Your mother ordered me to take you
to share the good news
with your uncle, Zhao Si.
When we returned,
your mother had already passed away.
Soon after, Wang Ying Xue
married your father.
Tuo Niang, watch out!
He has a spear that shatters the earth.
He is a young man with white hair…
Song Mo?
Young Lady, are you hurt?
Young Lady…
Did you hear that?
If you don't stop crying,
I'll send you to
the big bad demon, Song Mo.
He eats children.
I'm not crying!
Give me the food.
Go home.
He doesn't seem
as cruel as the rumors say.
General, since you know your infamous name
can stop children from crying,
you should try to commit fewer sins.
The carriage belongs to the
Marquis of Jining's Residence.
LU MING
With the capital in chaos,
why have you come here?
I'm going back to my hometown.
Given your condition,
the journey is too harsh for you.
You might as well
just return to to heaven.
Come to the temple and rest,
warm yourself with hot medicinal soup.
Hold on.
In such times,
how can we shelter people we barely know?
Lu Zheng.
-Soldiers, hear my command!
-Yes, General!
Move to the rear mountain of Wanfo Temple!
Yes, General!
I mistook you for an enemy scout earlier.
I apologize for the offense.
Lu Ming,
repair the carriage and
escort Her Ladyship to the temple.
Yes, General!
Young Lady.
The carriage only contains valuables.
The snow makes the roads treacherous.
What's so urgent
that you had to travel
in your poor health?
It's a private family matter,
not something we can share.
The General has shown kindness,
offering shelter from the snow.
Yet you still refuse to be open.
-Are you hiding something?
-Lu Ming.
Young Lady…
My Lady, surely you know
that the nation's fate
will soon be decided.
At such times, when survival is at stake,
everything must be analyzed.
-General…
-Tuo Niang.
It's nothing particularly important.
I just feared that, should I speak of it,
it would offend your ears.
Marquis of Jining and my half-sister
have been committing adultery
while I've been ill.
I caught them today.
I intended to divorce him immediately,
but there is no one in the Office of
State Affairs who can process my case
due to the chaos in the capital.
So,
I must return home and report it.
I see.
Forgive my rudeness, My Lady.
Your apology is not needed.
I'm no longer Marchioness of Jining.
My surname is Dou,
and I'm the fourth child in my family.
A man can leave a woman easily,
while it's harder
for a woman to leave a man.
The sooner you see someone's true colors,
the sooner you can cut ties.
Young Lady Dou,
you are the luckiest among the unlucky.
General, you control the new dynasty
and hold unparalleled power,
yet why has your hair turned gray,
and your eyes filled with regret?
General!
General…
Forgive me.
I'm a dying man
who has squandered his efforts
on those who did not deserve them.
Indeed.
We have squandered our efforts
on those who do not deserve them.
It will soon be dawn.
I'll have my men escort you back
to your hometown, Young Lady Dou.
Today's celestial signs are strange.
The comet enters the Purple Star,
an omen of disaster and turmoil,
yet we also see shooting stars
streaking across the sky.
The unrest in the capital
certainly corresponds
with the comet's entry,
but the shooting stars…
They might signal
fortune lies within misfortune.
You two are intertwined in fate.
You overestimate me, Reverend Yuan Tong.
I am just a powerless woman,
merely a passerby
seeking a bowl of medicinal soup
and shelter from the snowstorm.
How could I possibly be entwined
with General Song's fate?
What is this?
Prince Qing won't even appear
to tell me the truth?
General Song,
no matter how great your achievements,
after what you did,
His Highness has no choice
but to give you a death sentence.
Those who take the throne
are equally cold and ungrateful.
The Duke of Ding fought
on the frontlines for 15 years,
only to be framed for treason
and have his entire family executed.
Prince Qing hasn't even
taken the throne yet,
and he's already setting out
to eliminate his allies.
Doesn't he fear
what people will say about him?
General Song, don't worry about that.
If this gets out,
it'll be nothing but a scandal
of the Marquis of Jining's family.
What does it have to do with Prince Qing?
Don't you agree, My Lord?
By order of Prince Qing,
Song Mo has grown
arrogant with his merits.
He seduced Marchioness of Jining,
Dou Zhao, and ran off with her.
Wei Ting Yu, you…
With all the evidence, they shall
be executed to set things right.
He's shifting the blame onto a woman.
Prince Qing is even more
shameless than his father.
General Song,
if you surrender the imperial seal
and end your life now,
His Highness may
leave you with a whole corpse.
Too bad.
I'm far too petty
to leave you with a whole corpse.
Kill!
My Lady, please come with me
to the back mountain.
Come on, we have to go.
When Prince Qing stopped me
from seeing His Majesty,
I knew then he intended
to kill me after using me.
-Eunuch…
-I gave him a chance.
Had he kept his promise
and come to meet me,
I would've let him live.
But instead, he went to
the Western Mountain palace.
WESTERN MOUNTAIN PALACE
It proves that my efforts
to deploy the Duke of Ding's
elite troops there weren't in vain.
What benefit would killing me
bring to Song Mo?
If he wants to usurp the regency,
I will grant it to him.
-Kill!
Prince Qing
is probably a corpse by now.
Empty threats. Seize him!
Eunuch Wang…
-Prepare for battle!
Kill!
Young Lady…
Careful.
The Duke of Ding's Army has
always been skilled in battle.
Now that we've been surrounded,
what are we going to do?
Don't worry. As long as your wife is dead,
no matter how capable Song Mo is,
he'll just be a general
who has committed a crime.
My Lord!
Young Lady, run!
I'm going to kill you!
You're just a weak woman,
who can you possibly kill?
Tuo Niang!
General!
General, I really didn't know
Wei Ting Yu would do that.
I'm poisoned.
My time is running out.
I only regret that I can't clear
the Duke of Ding's name before I die.
Instead, I've dragged you into this
and led you to bear this disgrace,
costing you your life.
You saved my life
in the fields last night.
It's I who brought you trouble.
Come, let me take you away.
Yuan Tong…
Reverend Yuan Tong!
Yuan Tong.
RECORD OF TRUTHS
Go.
-That way.
-Let's go together.
I don't matter.
Within misfortune lies fortune.
You two are bound by fate.
The course of destiny
is now in your hands.
Go now. Go!
They're over there! Get them!
Watch out!
To live as a woman is to
live at the mercy of others.
A lifetime of joys and sorrows
controlled by someone else.
It is not only in marriage
that one is bound.
Even rulers and ministers
are no different.
One moment you're favored,
the next, you're sentenced to death.
Throughout my whole life,
I never had a moment
RECORD OF TRUTHS
when I could choose my own fate.
You're finally awake.
You were so absorbed in your reading,
you bumped straight into the mirror frame.
I…
How…
Shou Gu?
Young Lady?
-Shou Gu.
-Young Lady.
ZHAO GU QIU, MATRON OF DOU FAMILY
You're awake.
Mother?
Tuo Niang?
You're still here!
Why are you acting like a little girl?
It's all my fault.
Madam went to pray to
the Buddha to bless Master
with success in the imperial exams,
and I went with her.
I should've kept watch over Young Lady.
Success in the exams?
Is this the eighth year
of the reign Chengping?
Yes.
But I clearly lived through a lifetime.
Just now,
the temple was filled with Jiying Guards.
I died right in front of the mirror.
Young Lady…
Sometimes, a dream seems
so real that it feels like reality.
But it's still just a dream.
You got too caught up in the stories
and bumped your head.
The story is just a story,
but you are real.
Record of Truths?
It's a book left by a carefree recluse,
meant for someone destined to find it.
Looks like you're that lucky one.
Thank you, Master Yuan Tong.
You're Yuan Tong?
Mo!
You're finally awake.
Mo,
I couldn't wake you from a nightmare.
I was worried sick.
Fortunately, the abbot calmed
your spirit and treated you.
How do you feel now?
DUCHESS OF YING, JIANG HUI SUN
Mother,
I had such a long dream.
But now I can't remember
anything from it.
It's just as well.
All living beings
have the wisdom and nature
of the Buddha within them.
It is only because
of delusion and attachment
that they cannot attain enlightenment.
Thank you, Abbot.
But I feel like there are things
I shouldn't have forgotten.
On the day of triumphant success,
the spring breeze brings joy,
But the magnolia withers in autumn.
The aspiring ones soar with the wind,
yet regretful, they choose the coldest
branches in the best of times.
Triumphant in the imperial exams,
yet why does it speak
of withering and decline?
Shou Gu.
What are you reading?
Is this book that interesting?
He made it…
-He made it?
-Madam!
Madam!
Master made it!
Master made it onto the list!
The seventh in the second division!
This is wonderful!
Shi Ying's hard work
has finally paid off.
Shou Gu,
how did you know your father succeeded?
-I…
-This temple is so miraculous.
You even came to pray for
Young Lady Wang Ying Xue's family
matters before, Madam.
-Wang Ying Xue?
-It's just like today.
After studying diligently for years.
Father finally succeeded
in the imperial exam that year.
When we were celebrating,
Mother fell ill.
Mother? Are you all right, Mother?
Soon after she died,
Wang Ying Xue married into
the family and became my stepmother.
After all, her mother
and mine were sworn sisters.
And her mother died because of
my mother's affair with my father.
Gao Sheng, prepare the horse.
Yes, Madam.
Tuo Niang, take Shou Gu
to the Zhao residence to deliver
the good news to my brother.
It happens to be Zhang Ru's birthday…
No.
It's been such a long time
since I saw Father.
Why not invite Uncle
and Zhang Ru to our home
to celebrate together?
Uncle is an Imperial Censor
with the power to impeach officials.
He reports directly to His Majesty.
Father's future career
will benefit from connections.
When did you become so
knowledgeable about such things?
Alright then. I haven't seen
my brother in a long time either.
Please invite him then.
When I married into this family,
I buried a jar of
Huadiao wine for Shi Ying.
It's finally time to open it.
I must thank the gods.
Give it to me.
Walk slowly.
Tuo Niang, the imperial exams
were held in the capital.
Is Wang Ying Xue
also living in the capital?
Yes.
Young Lady Wang's father was demoted,
and her family fell on hard times.
She had to sell cotton and rice
to support her family in Chaxi.
When Master was studying in Chaxi,
Madam even asked him to bring
some money for Young Lady Wang.
Quickly, invite Uncle over.
The sooner, the better.
Yes, Young Lady.
The past cannot be changed,
but the future can still be made.
Since Record of Truths
records this so-called fate,
and now that I possess it
and can foresee the ending,
I can change it.
Mother,
however difficult or dangerous it may be,
I will protect you.
I won't let anyone hurt you.
When Dou Shi Ying was studying,
he committed adultery!
If you pressure my sister again,
I'll risk my life
to make sure we go down together!
If you really won't forgive me,
then grant me a white silk ribbon
so I can hang myself.
If you really want to die… Here.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
DURING THE MAKING OF THIS FILM
MEDICAL ACTS AND DRUGS IN THIS DRAMA
ARE FICTIONAL. DO NOT IMITATE.